---
layout: post
title: Slack &#58; Don't believe the hype
published: true
---

First a little background. Until about two months ago the company I work for, which is called <a href="http://daracreative.ie" target="_blank">Dara Creative</a>, was using Skype as its primary means of rapid internal communications. But as useful as Skype is it's also quite limited and recently we began to feel those limits. Eventually we succumbed to hype surrounding Slack and so we have been using it ever since.

Yet after two months of daily use I think that I can safely conclude that I don't - and probably never did - buy into the hype surrounding Slack. Please don't pick me up wrong. Slack has some really excellent features. It's great for sharing files, it supports the integration of many, many 3rd party services and I can't recall ever having any technical problems with the Windows app or loss of service. All told it's a smooth operator. So the reason I'm not sold on Slack isn't necessarily due to some glaring issue with the product itself.

Instead, the issue I have with Slack boils down to their business model - at least with respect to its relevance to the company I work for. As a company Dara Creative falls between two stools. One one hand, there are enough staff using Slack that the 10,000 message history limit is reached in a matter of days. (In the free plan messages get deleted after the limit is reached). On the other hand, I personally think that Slack's basic payment plan is too expensive for a service we primarily use as a way of instant messaging each other and file sharing.

So we started searching around the interwebs for something that was better than the slightly jaded Skype and also better priced than Skype. Happily we came across <a href="https://glip.com/" target="_blank">Glip</a>. Admittedly it's very early days in our trial period (as in it's the second day of the trial) but it seems to do nearly everything Slack does and so far I think it largely does it (nearly) as well or even better in some cases. There are exceptions of course. For instance, Glip has fewer 3rd party integrations available and the Windows desktop app crashed three times in two days. Nevertheless, the interface is very clean, it has a native calendar, tasks, notes (with version control), integrated video conferencing using Zoom (which I have to say is great fun), easily searchable conversations, files and links. It's also free. (It has recently been acquired by <a href="recode.net/2015/06/19/ringcentral-expands-beyond-phone-service-with-glip-acquisition/" target="_blank">some other company</a> so I hope that doesn't mean a change in business model.)

Despite my shameful click bait title Slack remains a very good service that many people will be happy with. However, if Slack doesn't quite scratch that itch then try Glip instead.
